---
layout: post
title: "The world we live in"
date: 2015-03-18T22:03:50+01:00
categories: [Info]
tags: [daily life, thoughts]
---
Sometimes I wonder, what do people write about? Todays events? Discussion topics? Crazy stories that no one would ever believe? I don't feel like writing about such things. Because the world we live in is crazy enough already. Just think about it, how many of our own planet we have yet to discover. What kind of animals have lived on this planet to this very day and how many will live for long after. The is so much to discover even just on the planet we all live on. So what if take a look at things a bit further away, like the moon. Have we discovered everything about it yet? We might, we might not.

How about other planets? The mars? Certainly have a lot still to discover. And the sun? Sure, we'll not going to land there any time soon, if at all, but we might find something throws out our current understand of where it gets all the energy (given our current understanding seems to be pretty reasonable). But those planets/stars are just in our planetary system. Around us are more than just one or two other systems, there are millions, trillion or even an infinite amount of other systems. This is crazy and scary. But I would say that it is the most interesting thing of our time, maybe even the most interesting thing for decades or centuries to come. Because we know neither much about the biggest parts about the universe nor about the smallest.

We have theories for many things, but they are still just theories. We are not exactly sure yet. We don't even know if there is just this one universe or if there are many like it. We don't know the size of the universe of if it's actually infinite. And this bothers me. Alot. What if there is other forms of life somewhere or if we are actually alone in this enormous dark space. Both are equally scary, yet interesting and I want to know. In theory, if the universe actually IS infinite, it would repeat itself at some point, because the parts which make up atoms, particles and, at the end of the day, even us, would end up in a constellation that already existed somewhere else. This would, in theory, mean that the state the world, the people, the galaxy and all the plantes and stars we are currently aware of would exist somewhere else in the universe. And there might be a "copy" of this world where you were not born and one where you are the last person alive.

But there are other things that we know exist but haven't really found yet. Dark matter or dark energy for example. These things go against our current understanding of how everything works, but we know that something like them actually exists. We know that they're there, because how would we explain that the universe seems to be expanding without transforming the energy it is using? It's like "Why can this enormous thing keep moving while I need to refuel my car every now and then?"

But what I think about the most is: "What is outside of the universe?". I mean right, if the universe is infinite the might not be something like the "outside" of it. But given the possiblity that it actually is finite and has and end somewhere, what is on the other side? I know this question is like asking from inside a cardboard box what would be on the outside, but wouldn't people wonder the same? Is this universe just a part of another "uni-universe"? So if we somehow manage to get out what would it be like? Right, we don't have answers for these questions. Not yet at least. But I certainly hope we will at some point in the future, probably not in my lifetime, which is not necessarily bad. Because I think having questions on your mind gets you to new ideas, which is great. And bending your mind to the edge of possibilities is also a good excercise I would say.

Even though I had no intention that this "article" provokes anything in you, I would be really happy if you started to wrapp your mind around some of these questions so they might get answered one day, maybe even by you or me :) Have a nice day!